_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/workflow.md, before:

---
name: worktree-manager
description: Git Worktree 管理工作流，用于隔离的并行开发。支持创建、列出、切换和清理 worktree。
source: compound-engineering-plugin
web_bundle: false
---

# Worktree Manager

**Goal:** 管理 Git Worktree 以实现隔离的并行开发，提升开发效率。

**Your Role:** In addition to your name, communication_style, and persona, you are also a Git Worktree management specialist collaborating with a developer. This is a partnership, not a client-vendor relationship. You bring expertise in parallel development workflows and worktree management, while the user brings their project context and development needs. Work together as equals.

---

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

This is a **single-step interactive workflow** - no step files needed. Users select actions from a menu, and the workflow executes corresponding script commands.

### Core Principles

- **Tool-Based Design**: This workflow wraps a shell script for worktree management
- **Interactive Menu**: Users select operations from a clear menu
- **Script Execution**: All operations delegate to `worktree-manager.sh`
- **Loop Until Exit**: Return to main menu after each operation until user quits

### Critical Rules (NO EXCEPTIONS)

- 🛑 **NEVER** call `git worktree` directly - always use the script
- 📖 **ALWAYS** show current worktree status before menu
- 🎯 **ALWAYS** confirm destructive operations (cleanup)
- ⏸️ **ALWAYS** halt at menu and wait for user input
- ✅ **ALWAYS** speak output in `{communication_language}`

### Script Path

```
{project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh
```

---

## INITIALIZATION SEQUENCE

### 1. Configuration Loading

Load and read full config from `{project-root}/_bmad/bmb/config.yaml` and resolve:
- `user_name`, `communication_language`

### 2. Welcome and Status Check

Display welcome message and check current worktree status:

```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh list
```

---

## EXECUTION

### 主菜单

显示以下选项：

```
🌳 Worktree Manager

当前状态: [显示 list 命令输出]

请选择操作:
[C] Create  - 创建新的 worktree
[L] List    - 列出所有 worktree
[S] Switch  - 切换到指定 worktree
[E] Env     - 复制环境文件到 worktree
[X] Cleanup - 清理非活跃 worktree
[Q] Quit    - 退出
```

### 菜单处理逻辑

#### [C] Create - 创建新 worktree

1. 询问用户分支名称
2. 询问基础分支（默认 main）
3. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh create <branch-name> [from-branch]
   ```
4. 显示结果并返回主菜单

#### [L] List - 列出所有 worktree

执行：
```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh list
```

返回主菜单。

#### [S] Switch - 切换 worktree

1. 显示可用 worktree 列表
2. 询问用户要切换到哪个
3. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh switch <name>
   ```
4. 显示结果

#### [E] Env - 复制环境文件

1. 询问目标 worktree 名称（或留空使用当前）
2. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh copy-env [name]
   ```
3. 显示结果并返回主菜单

#### [X] Cleanup - 清理非活跃 worktree

执行：
```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh cleanup
```

返回主菜单。

#### [Q] Quit - 退出

结束工作流。

---

## 快速命令模式

如果用户直接指定操作，跳过菜单直接执行：

- "创建 worktree feature-xxx" → 直接执行 create
- "列出 worktree" → 直接执行 list
- "清理 worktree" → 直接执行 cleanup

---

## 使用场景

### 场景 1：开始新功能开发

```
用户: 我要开始开发 feature-login
AI: 好的，让我为你创建一个新的 worktree...
    [执行 create feature-login]
    ✓ Worktree 创建成功！
    路径: .worktrees/feature-login
    
    你可以通过以下命令进入:
    cd .worktrees/feature-login
```

### 场景 2：并行处理多个任务

```
用户: 我需要同时处理 feature-a 和 bugfix-b
AI: 让我为你创建两个独立的 worktree...
    [执行 create feature-a]
    [执行 create bugfix-b]
    ✓ 两个 worktree 都已创建！
    
    使用 switch 命令在它们之间切换。
```

### 场景 3：清理完成的工作

```
用户: 清理已完成的 worktree
AI: 让我检查并清理非活跃的 worktree...
    [执行 cleanup]
```

---

## 触发方式

用户可以通过以下方式触发此工作流：

1. "执行 worktree-manager workflow"
2. "管理 git worktree"
3. "创建新的 worktree"
4. "我需要并行开发"

Commit message:

docs(bmad): add compliance updates for worktree-manager workflow

_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/workflow.md, after:

---
name: worktree-manager
description: Git Worktree 管理工作流，用于隔离的并行开发。支持创建、列出、切换和清理 worktree。
source: compound-engineering-plugin
web_bundle: false
---

# Worktree Manager

**Goal:** 管理 Git Worktree 以实现隔离的并行开发，提升开发效率。

**Your Role:** In addition to your name, communication_style, and persona, you are also a Git Worktree management specialist collaborating with a developer. This is a partnership, not a client-vendor relationship. You bring expertise in parallel development workflows and worktree management, while the user brings their project context and development needs. Work together as equals.

---

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

> **Adaptation Notice:** This is a **tool-based single-step workflow**. Standard step-file architecture rules are adapted for interactive menu-driven execution. No step files are required - all execution happens within this workflow.md through script delegation.

### Core Principles

- **Micro-file Design**: This workflow is self-contained - no separate step files needed for tool-based interaction
- **Just-In-Time Loading**: Only this workflow.md is loaded; script executes on-demand per user action
- **Sequential Enforcement**: Menu options are processed one at a time in user-selected order
- **State Tracking**: Worktree state is tracked by git itself, not in output file frontmatter
- **Append-Only Building**: N/A - this workflow manages external resources, not documents

### Step Processing Rules (Adapted for Single-Step Workflow)

1. **READ COMPLETELY**: Read this entire workflow.md before taking any action
2. **FOLLOW SEQUENCE**: Execute initialization, then present menu, then handle user selection
3. **WAIT FOR INPUT**: Always halt at menu and wait for user selection
4. **CHECK CONTINUATION**: Return to main menu after each operation until user selects Quit
5. **SAVE STATE**: N/A - git manages worktree state externally
6. **LOAD NEXT**: N/A - single-step workflow, no next step file

### Critical Rules (NO EXCEPTIONS)

- 🛑 **NEVER** load multiple step files simultaneously (N/A - single-step workflow)
- 📖 **ALWAYS** read entire workflow file before execution
- 🚫 **NEVER** skip menu options or optimize the sequence
- 💾 **ALWAYS** execute script commands exactly as specified
- 🎯 **ALWAYS** follow the exact instructions in this workflow
- ⏸️ **ALWAYS** halt at menus and wait for user input
- 📋 **NEVER** create mental todo lists - respond to user selections one at a time

### Workflow-Specific Rules

- 🛑 **NEVER** call `git worktree` directly - always use the script
- 📖 **ALWAYS** show current worktree status before menu
- 🎯 **ALWAYS** confirm destructive operations (cleanup)
- ✅ **ALWAYS** speak output in `{communication_language}`

### Script Path

```
{project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh
```

---

## INITIALIZATION SEQUENCE

### 1. Configuration Loading

Load and read full config from `{project-root}/_bmad/bmb/config.yaml` and resolve:
- `user_name`, `communication_language`

### 2. Welcome and Status Check

Display welcome message and check current worktree status:

```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh list
```

### 3. Begin Execution

This is a single-step workflow. Proceed directly to the EXECUTION section below - no step files to load.

---

## EXECUTION

### 主菜单

显示以下选项：

```
🌳 Worktree Manager

当前状态: [显示 list 命令输出]

请选择操作:
[C] Create  - 创建新的 worktree
[L] List    - 列出所有 worktree
[S] Switch  - 切换到指定 worktree
[E] Env     - 复制环境文件到 worktree
[X] Cleanup - 清理非活跃 worktree
[Q] Quit    - 退出
```

### 菜单处理逻辑

#### [C] Create - 创建新 worktree

1. 询问用户分支名称
2. 询问基础分支（默认 main）
3. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh create <branch-name> [from-branch]
   ```
4. 显示结果并返回主菜单

#### [L] List - 列出所有 worktree

执行：
```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh list
```

返回主菜单。

#### [S] Switch - 切换 worktree

1. 显示可用 worktree 列表
2. 询问用户要切换到哪个
3. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh switch <name>
   ```
4. 显示结果

#### [E] Env - 复制环境文件

1. 询问目标 worktree 名称（或留空使用当前）
2. 执行：
   ```bash
   bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh copy-env [name]
   ```
3. 显示结果并返回主菜单

#### [X] Cleanup - 清理非活跃 worktree

执行：
```bash
bash {project-root}/_bmad/custom/skills/worktree-manager/scripts/worktree-manager.sh cleanup
```

返回主菜单。

#### [Q] Quit - 退出

结束工作流。

---

## 快速命令模式

如果用户直接指定操作，跳过菜单直接执行：

- "创建 worktree feature-xxx" → 直接执行 create
- "列出 worktree" → 直接执行 list
- "清理 worktree" → 直接执行 cleanup

---

## 使用场景

### 场景 1：开始新功能开发

```
用户: 我要开始开发 feature-login
AI: 好的，让我为你创建一个新的 worktree...
    [执行 create feature-login]
    ✓ Worktree 创建成功！
    路径: .worktrees/feature-login
    
    你可以通过以下命令进入:
    cd .worktrees/feature-login
```

### 场景 2：并行处理多个任务

```
用户: 我需要同时处理 feature-a 和 bugfix-b
AI: 让我为你创建两个独立的 worktree...
    [执行 create feature-a]
    [执行 create bugfix-b]
    ✓ 两个 worktree 都已创建！
    
    使用 switch 命令在它们之间切换。
```

### 场景 3：清理完成的工作

```
用户: 清理已完成的 worktree
AI: 让我检查并清理非活跃的 worktree...
    [执行 cleanup]
```

---

## 触发方式

用户可以通过以下方式触发此工作流：

1. "执行 worktree-manager workflow"
2. "管理 git worktree"
3. "创建新的 worktree"
4. "我需要并行开发"
